Chief Executives
Direct or coordinate an organization's financial or budget activities to fund operations, maximize investments, or increase efficiency.
Appoint department heads or managers and assign or delegate responsibilities to them.
Analyze operations to evaluate performance of a company or its staff in meeting objectives or to determine areas of potential cost reduction, program improvement, or policy change.
Direct, plan, or implement policies, objectives, or activities of organizations or businesses to ensure continuing operations, to maximize returns on investments, or to increase productivity.
Prepare budgets for approval, including those for funding or implementation of programs.

Accountants
Prepare, examine, or analyze accounting records, financial statements, or other financial reports to assess accuracy, completeness, and conformance to reporting and procedural standards.
Report to management regarding the finances of establishment.
Establish tables of accounts and assign entries to proper accounts.
Develop, implement, modify, and document recordkeeping and accounting systems, making use of current computer technology.
Compute taxes owed and prepare tax returns, ensuring compliance with payment, reporting, or other tax requirements.

Credit Analysts
Analyze credit data and financial statements to determine the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money.
Generate financial ratios, using computer programs, to evaluate customers' financial status.
Consult with customers to resolve complaints and verify financial and credit transactions.
Prepare reports that include the degree of risk involved in extending credit or lending money.
Compare liquidity, profitability, and credit histories of establishments being evaluated with those of similar establishments in the same industries and geographic locations.

Insurance Underwriters
Decrease value of policy when risk is substandard and specify applicable endorsements or apply rating to ensure safe profitable distribution of risks, using reference materials.
Decline excessive risks.
Write to field representatives, medical personnel, and others to obtain further information, quote rates, or explain company underwriting policies.
Review company records to determine amount of insurance in force on single risk or group of closely related risks.
Examine documents to determine degree of risk from such factors as applicant financial standing and value and condition of property.

Loan Officers
Analyze applicants' financial status, credit, and property evaluations to determine feasibility of granting loans.
Obtain and compile copies of loan applicants' credit histories, corporate financial statements, and other financial information.
Meet with applicants to obtain information for loan applications and to answer questions about the process.
Explain to customers the different types of loans and credit options that are available, as well as the terms of those services.
Review loan agreements to ensure that they are complete and accurate according to policy.

Tax Examiners and Collectors, and Revenue Agents
Collect taxes from individuals or businesses according to prescribed laws and regulations.
Maintain knowledge of tax code changes, and of accounting procedures and theory to properly evaluate financial information.
Maintain records for each case, including contacts, telephone numbers, and actions taken.
Contact taxpayers by mail or telephone to address discrepancies and to request supporting documentation.
Send notices to taxpayers when accounts are delinquent.

Landscape Architects
Confer with clients, engineering personnel, or architects on landscape projects.
Prepare site plans, specifications, or cost estimates for land development.
Analyze data on conditions such as site location, drainage, or structure location for environmental reports or landscaping plans.
Develop marketing materials, proposals, or presentation to generate new work opportunities.
Inspect landscape work to ensure compliance with specifications, evaluate quality of materials or work, or advise clients or construction personnel.

Civil Engineers
Inspect project sites to monitor progress and ensure conformance to design specifications and safety or sanitation standards.
Compute load and grade requirements, water flow rates, or material stress factors to determine design specifications.
Provide technical advice to industrial or managerial personnel regarding design, construction, or program modifications or structural repairs.
Test soils or materials to determine the adequacy and strength of foundations, concrete, asphalt, or steel.
Manage and direct the construction, operations, or maintenance activities at project site.

Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists
Study animals in their natural habitats, assessing effects of environment and industry on animals, interpreting findings and recommending alternative operating conditions for industry.
Inventory or estimate plant and wildlife populations.
Organize and conduct experimental studies with live animals in controlled or natural surroundings.
Make recommendations on management systems and planning for wildlife populations and habitat, consulting with stakeholders and the public at large to explore options.
Disseminate information by writing reports and scientific papers or journal articles, and by making presentations and giving talks for schools, clubs, interest groups and park interpretive programs.

Physicists
Perform complex calculations as part of the analysis and evaluation of data, using computers.
Describe and express observations and conclusions in mathematical terms.
Analyze data from research conducted to detect and measure physical phenomena.
Report experimental results by writing papers for scientific journals or by presenting information at scientific conferences.
Design computer simulations to model physical data so that it can be better understood.

Marriage and Family Therapists
Ask questions that will help clients identify their feelings and behaviors.
Counsel clients on concerns, such as unsatisfactory relationships, divorce and separation, child rearing, home management, and financial difficulties.
Encourage individuals and family members to develop and use skills and strategies for confronting their problems in a constructive manner.
Maintain case files that include activities, progress notes, evaluations, and recommendations.
Develop and implement individualized treatment plans addressing family relationship problems, destructive patterns of behavior, and other personal issues.

Clergy
Pray and promote spirituality.
Read from sacred texts such as the Bible, Torah, or Koran.
Prepare and deliver sermons or other talks.
Organize and lead regular religious services.
Plan or lead religious education programs.

Lawyers
Represent clients in court or before government agencies.
Present evidence to defend clients or prosecute defendants in criminal or civil litigation.
Select jurors, argue motions, meet with judges, and question witnesses during the course of a trial.
Study Constitution, statutes, decisions, regulations, and ordinances of quasi-judicial bodies to determine ramifications for cases.
Interpret laws, rulings and regulations for individuals and businesses.

Paralegals and Legal Assistants
Prepare affidavits or other documents, such as legal correspondence, and organize and maintain documents in paper or electronic filing system.
Prepare for trial by performing tasks such as organizing exhibits.
Prepare legal documents, including briefs, pleadings, appeals, wills, contracts, and real estate closing statements.
Meet with clients and other professionals to discuss details of case.
File pleadings with court clerk.

Fashion Designers
Direct and coordinate workers involved in drawing and cutting patterns and constructing samples or finished garments.
Examine sample garments on and off models, modifying designs to achieve desired effects.
Sketch rough and detailed drawings of apparel or accessories, and write specifications such as color schemes, construction, material types, and accessory requirements.
Confer with sales and management executives or with clients to discuss design ideas.
Identify target markets for designs, looking at factors such as age, gender, and socioeconomic status.

Athletes and Sports Competitors
Attend scheduled practice or training sessions.
Participate in athletic events or competitive sports, according to established rules and regulations.
Exercise or practice under the direction of athletic trainers or professional coaches to develop skills, improve physical condition, or prepare for competitions.
Maintain equipment used in a particular sport.
Maintain optimum physical fitness levels by training regularly, following nutrition plans, or consulting with health professionals.

Registered Nurses
Maintain accurate, detailed reports and records.
Administer medications to patients and monitor patients for reactions or side effects.
Record patients' medical information and vital signs.
Monitor, record, and report symptoms or changes in patients' conditions.
Consult and coordinate with healthcare team members to assess, plan, implement, or evaluate patient care plans.

Chefs and Head Cooks
Monitor sanitation practices to ensure that employees follow standards and regulations.
Check the quality of raw or cooked food products to ensure that standards are met.
Estimate amounts and costs of required supplies, such as food and ingredients.
Instruct cooks or other workers in the preparation, cooking, garnishing, or presentation of food.
Supervise or coordinate activities of cooks or workers engaged in food preparation.

Waiters and Waitresses
Check with customers to ensure that they are enjoying their meals and take action to correct any problems.
Collect payments from customers.
Write patrons' food orders on order slips, memorize orders, or enter orders into computers for transmittal to kitchen staff.
Prepare checks that itemize and total meal costs and sales taxes.
Take orders from patrons for food or beverages.

Childcare Workers
Maintain a safe play environment.
Dress children and change diapers.
Observe and monitor children's play activities.
Communicate with children's parents or guardians about daily activities, behaviors, and related issues.
Sanitize toys and play equipment.

Cashiers
Receive payment by cash, check, credit cards, vouchers, or automatic debits.
Issue receipts, refunds, credits, or change due to customers.
Assist customers by providing information and resolving their complaints.
Establish or identify prices of goods, services or admission, and tabulate bills using calculators, cash registers, or optical price scanners.
Greet customers entering establishments.

Switchboard Operators, Including Answering Service
Answer incoming calls, greeting callers, providing information, transferring calls or taking messages as necessary.
Operate communication systems, such as telephone, switchboard, intercom, two-way radio, or public address.
Page individuals to inform them of telephone calls, using paging or interoffice communication equipment.
Relay or route written or verbal messages.
Place telephone calls or arrange conference calls as instructed.

Credit Authorizers
Keep records of customers' charges and payments.
Evaluate customers' computerized credit records and payment histories to decide whether to approve new credit, based on predetermined standards.
File sales slips in customers' ledgers for billing purposes.
Receive charge slips or credit applications by mail, or receive information from salespeople or merchants by telephone.
Mail charge statements to customers.

Meter Readers, Utilities
Read electric, gas, water, or steam consumption meters and enter data in route books or hand-held computers.
Walk or drive vehicles along established routes to take readings of meter dials.
Upload into office computers all information collected on hand-held computers during meter rounds, or return route books or hand-held computers to business offices so that data can be compiled.
Verify readings in cases where consumption appears to be abnormal, and record possible reasons for fluctuations.
Inspect meters for unauthorized connections, defects, and damage such as broken seals.

Data Entry Keyers
Read source documents such as canceled checks, sales reports, or bills, and enter data in specific data fields or onto tapes or disks for subsequent entry, using keyboards or scanners.
Compile, sort and verify the accuracy of data before it is entered.
Compare data with source documents, or re-enter data in verification format to detect errors.
Store completed documents in appropriate locations.
Locate and correct data entry errors, or report them to supervisors.

Hunters and Trappers
Maintain and repair trapping equipment.
Patrol trap lines or nets to inspect settings, remove catch, and reset or relocate traps.
Obtain required approvals for using poisons or traps, and notify persons in areas where traps and poison are set.
Trap and capture quarry dead or alive for identification, relocation, or sale, using baited, scented, or camouflaged traps, snares, cages, or nets.
Scrape fat, blubber, or flesh from skin sides of pelts with knives or hand scrapers.

Sewing Machine Operators
Monitor machine operation to detect problems such as defective stitching, breaks in thread, or machine malfunctions.
Position items under needles, using marks on machines, clamps, templates, or cloth as guides.
Place spools of thread, cord, or other materials on spindles, insert bobbins, and thread ends through machine guides and components.
Match cloth pieces in correct sequences prior to sewing them, and verify that dye lots and patterns match.
Guide garments or garment parts under machine needles and presser feet to sew parts together.

Light Truck or Delivery Services Drivers
Obey traffic laws and follow established traffic and transportation procedures.
Turn in receipts and money received from deliveries.
Read maps and follow written or verbal geographic directions.
Verify the contents of inventory loads against shipping papers.
Load and unload trucks, vans, or automobiles.

Taxi Drivers and Chauffeurs
Follow relevant safety regulations and state laws governing vehicle operation and ensure that passengers follow safety regulations.
Test vehicle equipment, such as lights, brakes, horns, or windshield wipers, to ensure proper operation.
Arrange to pick up particular customers or groups on a regular schedule.
Provide passengers with assistance entering and exiting vehicles and help them with any luggage.
Notify dispatchers or company mechanics of vehicle problems.

Industrial Truck and Tractor Operators
Move levers or controls that operate lifting devices, such as forklifts, lift beams with swivel-hooks, hoists, or elevating platforms, to load, unload, transport, or stack material.
Inspect product load for accuracy and safely move it around the warehouse or facility to ensure timely and complete delivery.
Manually or mechanically load or unload materials from pallets, skids, platforms, cars, lifting devices, or other transport vehicles.
Position lifting devices under, over, or around loaded pallets, skids, or boxes and secure material or products for transport to designated areas.
Weigh materials or products and record weight or other production data on tags or labels.

